DOCS-#2941: document `modin/data_management` module (#2956)
modin-project/modin: docs/flow/modin/data_management/factories.rst

Factories Module Description
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Brief description
'''''''''''''''''

> Modin has many execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. Factories module role is to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modin has many execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. Factories module role is to route function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations.
```

> Modin has many execution backends, the trace of any DataFrame API function call will end up in some backend-specific method. Factories module brings to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modin has many execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. Factories module role is to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations.
```

> Backend representation via Factories

Reviewer: Both here and in `Engine dispatcher` section you refer to IO operations only. That is not fully true. Factories are responsible for routing of all function calls from the API level to a specific backend. I think we should also note about a frame and a query compiler classes that are held by conforming IO class. These frame and query compiler classes are responsible for routing of function calls different from IO.

Author: `EngineDispatcher` is responsible only for IO calls, you can walk through [its methods](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/a613f2d10a59c7a23fbae7b899c3a6c21d2c0c35/modin/data_management/factories/dispatcher.py#L50) to be sure. 

As you correctly mentioned, the rest of the calls are handled by the query compiler, of the selected backend (not by `EngineDispatcher` or factory). Going to add a note in docs about it.

Reviewer: Strictly saying, yes, the rest of the calls are handled by the query compiler that is selected through the following flow: EngineDispatcher -> Factory -> IO -> QC. That should be highlighted.

Reviewer: > `EngineDispatcher` is responsible only for IO calls, you can walk through [its methods](https://github.com/modin-project/modin/blob/a613f2d10a59c7a23fbae7b899c3a6c21d2c0c35/modin/data_management/factories/dispatcher.py#L50) to be sure.

`from_pandas`, `from_arrow`, `from_non_pandas` :)

Author: clarified qc role in dispatching function calls at the last commit

Reviewer: I would prefer to highlight the Factories role in initialization of the query compiler a bit more. Something like this:
`Modin has many execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. This responsibility lays on QueryCompiler that is initialized when creating a DataFrame through dispatching of required factory.`

Author: rephrased your suggestion a bit and added it to the docs

Reviewer: Rephrased a bit as well :)

> Modin has several execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. The responsibility of dispatching high-level API calls to backend-specific function lays on :doc:`QueryCompiler </flow/modin/backends/query_compiler.rst>`, which is determined by the factory of the corresponding backend. The mission of this module is to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations, which build `QueryCompiler` of the appropriate backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modin has several execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. The responsibility of dispatching high-level API calls to backend-specific function lays on `QueryCompiler`, which is determined by the factory of the corresponding backend. The mission of this module is to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations, which build `QueryCompiler` of the appropriate backend.
```

Reviewer: Let's not insert the link for now because it doesn't exist based on the tree in #2952.

> Modin has many execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. The responsibility of dispatching high-level API calls to backend-specific function lays on :doc:`QueryCompiler </flow/modin/backends/query_compiler.rst`. Building the `QueryCompiler` from external data is the role of the factories module. The mission of this module is to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations, which builds `QueryCompiler` of the corresponding backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modin has multiple execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. The responsibility of dispatching high-level API calls to backend-specific function lays on `QueryCompiler` which definition is a role of the factories module. Another mission of this module is to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations, which build `Query Compiler` of the corresponding backend.
```

Author: Factories module role is to _build_ proper QueryCompiler, not to _define_ it. There is also no "another" mission of this module. Its only function is to dispatch IO calls to the backend-specific implementation, which results in a building of the QueryCompiler.

@vnlitvinov I'm calling you, to be a judge here)

Reviewer: So, before a proper QueryCompiler is built/created a proper type of the QueryCompiler is defined in a proper IO class that was defined in a Factory. On "another", it is similar to "one more" mission of factories. So, I wouldn't put aside the Factories' role of defining proper type for QueryCompiler to be constructed.

cc @devin-petersohn

Author: @YarShev agree with you, changed this sentence

''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> Backend is a combination of the `QueryCompiler` and `Execution engine`. For example, ``PandasOnRay`` backend means the combination of the ``PandasQueryCompiler`` and ``Ray`` engine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Backend is a combination of the `QueryCompiler` and `Execution Engine`. For example, ``PandasOnRay`` backend means the combination of the ``PandasQueryCompiler`` and ``Ray`` engine. 
```

> Backend — is a combination of the `QueryCompiler` and `Execution engine`. For example, ``PandasOnRay`` backend means the combination of the ``PandasQueryCompiler`` and ``Ray`` engine. 
> 
> In the scope of this module, each backend represented with a factory class located in ``factories.py``. Factory contains the IO module of the corresponding backend and responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in an underlying IO module. (For more information about IO module visit :doc:`related doc </flow/modin/engines/base/io.rst>`.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Backend is a combination of the `QueryCompiler` and `Execution engine`. For example, ``PandasOnRay`` backend means the combination of the ``PandasQueryCompiler`` and ``Ray`` engine. 

In the scope of this module, each backend is represented with a factory class located in ``factories.py``. Factory contains the IO module of the corresponding backend and is responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in an underlying IO module. For more information about IO module visit :doc:`related doc </flow/modin/engines/base/io.rst>`.
```

> In the scope of this module, each backend is represented with a factory class located in ``factories.py``. Factory contains the IO module of the corresponding backend and is responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in an underlying IO module. For more information about IO module visit :doc:`related doc </flow/modin/engines/base/io.rst>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the scope of this module, each backend is represented with a factory class located in ``factories.py``. Factory contains the IO module of the corresponding backend and is responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in an underlying IO module. For more information about IO module visit :doc:`related doc </flow/modin/engines/base/frame/io.rst>`.
```

Author: going by #2952 the future path of the IO module docs will be exactly as it's written https://github.com/modin-project/modin/pull/2952/files#diff-4ce064cf82a7c9548037a6cae9cbf0f23ea6a30856feee35182cd0e6bf00743f

> Engine dispatcher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Engine Dispatcher
```

'''''''''''''''''
`EngineDispatcher` provides public methods whose interface corresponds to the same pandas IO functions, the only difference is that they return QueryCompiler of the selected backend instead of DataFrame. Engine dispatcher is responsible for routing these IO calls to the factory which represents the selected backend.

> So when you call ``.read_csv`` function and your backend is `PandasOnRay` then the trace would be the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So when you call ``read_csv()`` function and your backend is `PandasOnRay` then the trace would be the following:
```

> `EngineDispatcher` provides public methods whose interface corresponds to the same pandas IO functions, the only difference is that they return QueryCompiler of the selected backend instead of DataFrame. Engine dispatcher is responsible for routing these IO calls to the factory which represents the selected backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``EngineDispatcher`` provides public methods whose interface corresponds to the same pandas IO functions, the only difference is that they return `QueryCompiler` of the selected backend instead of DataFrame. ``EngineDispatcher`` is responsible for routing these IO calls to the factory which represents the selected backend.
```

> ``modin.pandas.read_csv`` calls ``EngineDispatcher.read_csv``, which call ``.read_csv`` function of the factory of the selected backend, in our case it's ``PandasOnRayFactory._read_csv``, which forwards this call to the actual implementation of ``read_csv`` — to the ``PandasOnRayIO.read_csv``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``modin.pandas.read_csv`` calls ``EngineDispatcher.read_csv``, which calls ``.read_csv`` function of the factory of the selected backend, in our case it's ``PandasOnRayFactory._read_csv``, which in turn forwards this call to the actual implementation of ``read_csv`` — to the ``PandasOnRayIO.read_csv``.
```

> So when you call ``read_csv()`` function and your backend is `PandasOnRay` then the trace would be the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So when you call ``read_csv()`` function and your backend is ``PandasOnRay`` then the trace would be the following:
```

..
    TODO: add links to documentation for mentioned modules.

Factories Module Description
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Brief description
'''''''''''''''''
Modin has several execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in
some backend-specific method. The responsibility of dispatching high-level API calls to

> backend-specific function lays on `QueryCompiler`, which is determined by the factory of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
backend-specific function belongs to the `QueryCompiler`, which is determined at the time of the dataframe's creation by the factory of
```

the corresponding backend. The mission of this module is to route IO function calls from

> the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations, which build

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations, which builds the
```

`QueryCompiler` of the appropriate backend.

Backend representation via Factories
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
Backend is a combination of the `QueryCompiler` and `Execution Engine`. For example,
``PandasOnRay`` backend means the combination of the ``PandasQueryCompiler`` and ``Ray``
engine. 

In the scope of this module, each backend is represented with a factory class located in

> ``factories.py``. Factory contains the IO module of the corresponding backend and is

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``modin/data_management/factories/factories.py``. Each factory contains a field that identifies the IO module of the corresponding backend. This IO module is
```

> responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in an

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in the
```

underlying IO module. For more information about IO module visit :doc:`related doc </flow/modin/engines/base/io>`.

Engine Dispatcher
'''''''''''''''''

> ``EngineDispatcher`` provides public methods whose interface corresponds to the same

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``modin.data_management.factories.dispatcher.EngineDispatcher`` class provides public methods whose interface corresponds to
```

pandas IO functions, the only difference is that they return `QueryCompiler` of the
selected backend instead of DataFrame. ``EngineDispatcher`` is responsible for routing
these IO calls to the factory which represents the selected backend.

> So when you call ``read_csv()`` function and your backend is ``PandasOnRay`` then the

Reviewer 3: Nice!

trace would be the following:

.. figure:: /img/engine_dispatching.svg
    :align: center

``modin.pandas.read_csv`` calls ``EngineDispatcher.read_csv``, which calls ``.read_csv``
function of the factory of the selected backend, in our case it's ``PandasOnRayFactory._read_csv``,
which in turn forwards this call to the actual implementation of ``read_csv`` — to the

> ``PandasOnRayIO.read_csv``. In the result ``modin.pandas.read_csv`` will return a Modin

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``PandasOnRayIO.read_csv``. The result of ``modin.pandas.read_csv`` will return a Modin
```

> DataFrame with an appropriate `QueryCompiler` bound to it, which is responsible for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
DataFrame with the appropriate `QueryCompiler` bound to it, which is responsible for
```

..
    TODO: add links to documentation for mentioned modules.

Factories Module Description
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

Brief description
'''''''''''''''''
Modin has several execution backends. Calling any DataFrame API function will end up in some backend-specific method. The responsibility of dispatching high-level API calls to backend-specific function lays on `QueryCompiler`, which is determined by the factory of the corresponding backend. The mission of this module is to route IO function calls from the API level to its actual backend-specific implementations, which build `QueryCompiler` of the appropriate backend.

Backend representation via Factories
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
Backend is a combination of the `QueryCompiler` and `Execution Engine`. For example, ``PandasOnRay`` backend means the combination of the ``PandasQueryCompiler`` and ``Ray`` engine. 

> In the scope of this module, each backend is represented with a factory class located in ``factories.py``. Factory contains the IO module of the corresponding backend and responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in an underlying IO module. For more information about IO module visit :doc:`related doc </flow/modin/engines/base/io.rst>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the scope of this module, each backend is represented with a factory class located in ``factories.py``. Factory contains the IO module of the corresponding backend and is responsible for dispatching calls of IO functions to their actual implementations in an underlying IO module. For more information about IO module visit :doc:`related doc </flow/modin/engines/base/io.rst>`.
```
